Week 1: Data Gathering - Crop Yields or Planted Areas
This week, I've been trying to gather and clean data for at least 10 years of wheat and poppy crop yields or planted hectares in every Afghan province. In 2020, the United Nations Office of Drugs and Crime (UNODC) published a PDF with the Indicative district level estimates of opium poppy cultivation in hectares covering 2005-2020. The data was collected in conjunction with the National Survey Institute of Afghanistan (NSIA). In 2020, due to pandemic-related ground survey restrictions, remote sensing techniques to calculate poppy cultivation in hectares.

In order to render the UNODC tables into a workable formate, I extracted the pages from containing the necessary data from the published PDF report, then ran OCR (optical character recognition) on these pages. Then, I ingested the OCR results into Excel worksheets. Since OCR is not a perfect process, I manually fixed column content issues for each extracted file, and saved them all as CSVs. In a latter state of this project, I will simply convert these CSVs into dataframes with Python's pandas library.

UNODC 2020 Afghanistan Opium Survey Report: https://www.unodc.org/documents/crop-monitoring/Afghanistan/20210503_Executive_summary_Opium_Survey_2020_SMALL.pdf

On wheat cultivation: I have not yet been able to find province-by-province data on any food crop yields in Afghanistan. I was able to use the United States Department of Agriculture's (USDA) Foreign Agricultural Service's (FAS) Open Data Services, implemented through the [Swagger UI](https://apps.fas.usda.gov/opendata/swagger/ui/index#/), to find time-series data on the total estimated wheat production of the entire country of Afghanistan. I am still searching for provincial data. If nothing else works, I am hoping to implement the methodology outlined in this paper:

Tiwari Varun, Matin Mir A., Qamer Faisal M., Ellenburg Walter Lee, Bajracharya Birendra, Vadrevu Krishna, Rushi Begum Rabeya, Yusafi Waheedullah, "Wheat Area Mapping in Afghanistan Based on Optical and SAR Time-Series Images in Google Earth Engine Cloud Environment", Frontiers in Environmental Science, Vol. 8, 19 June 2020. URL=https://www.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/fenvs.2020.00077
DOI=10.3389/fenvs.2020.00077    
	
The authors only predict wheat-sown areas in Afghanistan for the year 2017. A visualization of their work can be found [here](http://geoapps.icimod.org/afwheat/). Since interpreting and implementing their methodology for all years would be a time-consuming task (especially given that we are only in the first stage of the overall project and might not necessarily have an accurate forecast of how much time the remaining stages will take), I have emailed Varun Tiwari and Mir Matin at ICIMOD to ask if the code for their project could be made available to me as a reference point. If they do not respond, and if I cannot find any provincial survey day in the next few days, I will consult with the professor and TA and decide whether to move ahead with only the poppy yields predictive model (a pretty significant task in and of itself, given the political instability in the region), or whether to replicate Tiwari et al's methodology in earnest.

Further data gathering steps include local heat mapping, rainfall index, and soil composition data from the World Bank Climate Knowledge datasets, as well as numerical scores for rule of law preservation and other political instability indicators for the region from the Transparency Index and World Bank.
